Add the post about OCaml's module system (#69)
mrkkrp/markkarpov.com: post/what-does-a-humped-critter-have-to-teach-us.md

with its “real” implementation type.

### Functors

*Functors* are functions from module to module (although functors and
functions do not share the same syntax). For example:

```ocaml
module type Eq = sig
  type t

  val eq : t -> t -> bool
end

module EqFromIndexed (Elt : Eq) (I : sig
  type t

  val index : t -> int -> Elt.t
  val length : t -> int
end) : (Eq with type t := I.t) = struct
  let eq x y =
    let len_x = I.length x in
    let len_y = I.length y in
    let rec go i =
      if i < len_x
      then I.index x i = I.index y i && go (i + 1)
      else true in
    if len_x = len_y
    then go 0
    else false
end
```

Here we first defined the type signature `Eq` which captures the necessary
minimum for talking about equality of things: the type `t` and the equality
function `eq`. Then we defined the functor `EqFromIndexed` which takes the
module `Elt : Eq` providing an equality check for elements, as well as the
module `I` providing two functions `index` and `length`. This allow us to
check if two indexable containers are equal by simply traversing all
elements. The definition of `EqFromIndexed` also features an *anonymous

> module signature*.

Reviewer: You didn't explain the `Eq with type t ...` part. It may be worth an small sentence for readers that like going deep on the first read. Here is the interesting part in the ocaml manual: http://caml.inria.fr/pub/docs/manual-ocaml/moduleexamples.html#sec24

Author: I actually replaced `with type ..` by `type t = I.t` in the definition. I think it's simpler and more straight-forward.

Reviewer: I don't think this will survive the `: Eq` constraint.

* **Naming convention.** As you can see, with OCaml's approach naming
  matters. If a module follows the conventions it can often be passed to a
  functor without having to define another module that can act as a bridge
  to satisfy the naming convention that a functor expects. This makes names
  in modules more predictable.

* **Complexity.** Type classes are a heavy feature in Haskell. It
  complicates things instead of keeping the system flat and simple. Look at,
  say, associated type families. You have normal “standalone” type families
  and then type families associated with a type class. Following OCaml's
  strategy we would have just 1 level instead of 2. OCaml already
  essentially has associated types (remember `Elt.t`?) and it's simply a
  consequence of the fact that it has `type` definitions and the structure
  of its module system.

* **Efficiency.** OCaml's module system reminds me of Haskell's
  [backpack][backpack]. In OCaml land there is one problem less
  performance-wise. At least in theory, generating new functions with
  functors should produce fully specialized efficient code, sparing us of

>   the fear that excessive polymorphism will make our code 100 times slower.

Reviewer: It's not always specialized. Especially the definition of `eq` in `EqFromIndexed` will need an indirection to call `Elt.eq` and `I.index` or `I.length`.
This is very fast in practice as the lookup is done at initialization time and is cached inside the closure of the `eq` function.

Author: Yeah, that's why I say "at least in theory" :)

  classes it doesn't promise to establish a one-to-one correspondence
  between types and values/functions. Which leads us to…

* **Type classes as a way to go from type level to value level.** In modern
  Haskell type classes are often used to get a unique value (functions are
  also values in this context) associated with a type. Here, type class
  definition establishes what sort of value you can get, and instances
  define actual values. If we accept that the “uniqueness” property is
  useful, then we could argue that OCaml doesn't have such a mechanism.
  [Edward Kmett likes this a lot.][type-classes-vs-the-world] But I'd say
  it's not a problem of module system vs type classes. If we have dependent
  types, we automatically can get one-to-one correspondence of similar kind.

## Conclusion

OCaml's modules are first-class values. They allow the language to be simple
yet expressive without the need for type classes providing a typed framework
on a higher level and making it easier to generate performant code.

This post is not meant to be a comprehensive guide to the OCaml module
system, so I'm not showing some usages, such as nesting modules in a single

> file or actually passing modules as arguments to functions (partly to cut

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file or actually passing modules as values (partly to cut
```

Values can do more than being passed to functions. This is usually called first class modules.
